Welcome back and I hope you had an opportunity to try out some of these new functions that we can do
with a raise and I'm going to show you another really cool one.
So this one is let's set up a default value here so just call it test.
And we saw earlier that we could actually move to the next item if we had entries.
And unfortunately with an array.
There are not entries but fortunately for us there is a way to transform an array into entries and that's
using that entry's method.
So now whenever I console log out test it's going to look different then D.
So let me show you what I mean.
So when I refresh it we get the array iterator.
And basically that means that we can move to the next item that's available within there and we saw
this earlier that we can move through the next one and every time we do the next one then we don't lose
the place that we've gone through.
So we're looking at a function earlier where we were returning back the next one.
So this time we're just going to simply we've created the entries out of the array that we have and
we can simply do the next value.
So in order to get that value back it's the format that's going to be the same things we do a console
log where we're just going to output it and we're going to grab that newly constructed entry's object
and test and then use the next method.
And let me show you what we return back here.
And not surprisingly we've got value and we've got done is false and we've got two values in there.
So if we move on to the next we can always pull back the value and if we say the same thing next and
if we see the same thing next or what happens.
So basically we have the ability to loop through the array.
So those index values become part of this object where we can get the two values to the first one was
originally the index value and the second one is actually the value that's contained within there.
And this is how we can actually transform our arrays.
And this gives us more flexibility and also moving through all of the values that are contained within
the arrays.
We can do it within this type of format.
So what happens if we've got an entry's object and we want to transform this back in to an array so
we can do that as well.
And that's using the spread operator and we saw this briefly earlier as well.
So let's look at creating a brand new brand new value here and this one.
So we transform those entries back into an array.
So we're going to create a brand new array test one and it's not going to be an array.
Right off the bat because we're going to use test and we know that test is an entry as object.
So if we do test entries then we know that we've got we've already got those entries so we want to convert
this back.
We want to take we take those entries back and convert it back into an array.
So the way that we do that is we use test there so testers the entries object and we use the spread
OPERATOR So that's those three dots there.
Now if my console log out test one let's see what happens.
Let's say that refresh and we see that we're empty right now we didn't actually pick up the values
so you know what went wrong here.
And if you said that well we've moved through all the next values and that's where we're no longer able
to pick that up.
You're correct.
So that's actually what's happened there is that's why we're empty because we've moved through all of
them.
So if we dump them back into an array we see that this is that last one here that's outputting the test
1.
So we didn't move through them.
If we want to move through one then we're only going to be building out our array of the remaining entries.
And that is one of the things to always keep in mind so we see that now we've got our array with two
but we see that within the array we're actually getting an array within an array sort getting a multi
or a nested array.
So we multi dimensional array or nested array.
So we've got both of those that we've converted now we've got those old index values.
We've got some new index values and then these are arrays within arrays.
So if we want to get the index value the old one we'd have to go to the first item.
We've got a number of items so we have to go to the first item and the first item within that nested
array is going to be the old index value and then the second one is going to be the actual value that
was contained within there.
So I know that was quite a bit to take in.
But I do have a little bit more for you but I do want to give you an opportunity to try this out for
yourself.
So go ahead and create an array and then you have to convert it into an entry use object and then take
that entry's object converted back into an array and output it in the console.
So go in and try that.
And I'm going to show you how we can use sets again and we can take those sets because we know that
sets had all of those entries and we can take those sets and we can convert that set into an array.
So I show you how to do that as well.
So if we had an opportunity to try it out.
So let's go ahead and create a set.
So you know with a set we do a new set.
So this is how we construct our set.
Object and we can actually if we wanted to we could construct it we could construct it using an array.
But this time let's pass some values so we could pass in that array and we could transform our array
into a set.
I'm going to reuse some of these same values to save me the trouble of actually typing it up and so
for my set if you want to convert it into an array.
So it's use LET.
And we're going to call this one my are two and we're going to use that Array constructor that we saw
earlier and do a from.
So from that Array constructor and with in here we put my set.
And basically what's going to happen now is that we're going to construct that.
So it's console log that.
So that we can take a closer look at what's happening behind the scenes.
And this one will console log as well.
So this is our end result.
So my are two and let's see what happens in the console.
So refresh.
And so there we go.
So we've got the first one is the set we've got all of those entries there within the set.
And if we look at the next one.
So this is just that regular array because we've used the array constructor and we've taken the set
and we've brought it back into an array.
So there's a lot of things you can do bringing things in and out and so on.
There's a lot of functionality that's available now with ESX and some of it does get fairly complex.
So I would advise when you're starting out just get familiar with all of these conversions converting
one to the other and just working with those datas those pieces of data from arrays to objects and transferring
them in and out.
And you can also play around with and just see what happens see what you need in order to transfer it
in and out.
So I've got a few other things that I want to show you as well before we finish up this lesson.
So there are some other things that we can do.
And one of them that I want to show you is copy within.
So this actually allows us to copy some content that's contained within an array.
So let me let me set this one up so remember again that we're going to be actually doing this from an
array.
So I'm just adding in some default values there so we've got more values contained within the array
because what copy within does is it allows us to set a starting index value and then allows us to copy
an array from that starting index value so we can set up an index value to copy starting out and then
where we want to position those values where we want to place them within that array.
So let's try that out and this time we're just going to do it within the console log so that we can
actually see what's happening.
And we're going to use the my array because now this is an array.
So this is an array and that's actually much longer now because I've added in more values in there and
the method we're using is copy within.
So it's just like that.
And then it takes two parameters.
So that first parameter is where we're going to paste it within the array.
So if we want to paste it with an index and this is actually where we can use that find index.
It was a great place to use that we could incorporate it within this functionality as well.
So for this one here let's place it in the fourth spot and now we need to show you what value what values
we want to copy in.
So let's grab all of the values starting and at index 1 and see what happens.
So let's refresh.
And so there we go.
So we made some changes to the array.
And basically what we did is we updated it at the fourth index Fourth's starting there so 0 1 2 3 4.
So this is where our update started.
And what we did is we took values and we replaced these three values with these three values.
And they came from actually starting at index 1 all the way to getting the last three values.
So basically we were able to overwrite them really easy to copy with them.
And this is really useful but it's also very powerful so if you're using it in a real world type scenario
be really really careful that you don't overwrite data that you need to make use of within your application.
And there's one other one that's also equally powerful and this one there's there's probably selected
uses for this but I'm going to show you this one because I really like it but I haven't really found
a really great use for it.
So if we want to overwrite them so if want to fill an array with a particular value so maybe if we want
to have a particular value as a default value or want to override all of them and we want to have a
starting point for those values we can easily overwrite those values.
So what do you think Phil is going to do.
So when I refresh it and we see what actually happened to the array the array content all got filled
with whatever value entered in there.
So again this is another really powerful one.
So you've got to be really careful when to use that and finding a good scenario to use it might be a
little bit difficult but it is actually fun to just play around with it and try it for yourself.
So that's what you can do now is we've learned quite a bit that we can do with arrays.
So why don't you take what you've learned within this lesson in the previous one and try it for yourself.
Even over here we're using those index values so we can pick up an index value with find index and then
make use of it with whatever we want to copy.
And so on.
So go ahead and try it for yourself.